(upbeat music)
- All right, so this is Apple's brand new,
latest and greatest iPhone 15.
And nothing inside is new
or anything that we haven't seen before
in some other phone somewhere.
Now that doesn't mean
it's not a good phone.
You can actually be a really
good phone and not really new,
they aren't mutually exclusive.
And it turns out,
that is actually Apple's
strategy with this phone.
The more I use this phone,
the more I see Apple's textbook,
late mover advantage strategy
coming into play here.
They're gonna take something
we've literally already seen before
and then do it the Apple way.
So on the outside, let's see,
how would I describe
this new phone's design?
Kind of familiar, I don't know,
somewhat reminiscent of the 14.
How does Apple say it?
- iPhone 15 has an all new
design that's simply gorgeous.
- All new?
All new? Really?
Okay, I mean, I don't know about all new
but this phone definitely
inherits the same looks
and general design as last year again.
But you know what's at least partially new
is actually the way it feels in the hand.
So I said this in the 15 Pro review,
but they've done a good job
softening the corners here.
So it still looks boxy,
still has aluminum rails,
but it's more comfortable to hold,
since these corners aren't as sharp,
they're a little bit rounded off.
And then, this is also
the first glass-backed,
non-Pro iPhone with a satin back,
and I am loving the satin back,
this is like a nice, soft
touch, frosted glass back here.
I know there's a super
complicated process too
to like get this single
piece of glass on the back
to be two different colors
and two different
thicknesses and all that,
and I can totally respect it.
But honestly, the colors,
they are super weak.
People were saying in the last video
the the color grading must be off,
it looks like it's white instead of blue.
No, this blue phone really
doesn't look that blue at all
in almost any lighting, it's like 1% blue.
But either way, you can say between
the aluminum and the pale light colors,
these are also probably
the most fingerprint
resistant iPhones in years.
On the sides, same button placements,
same speakers placements,
same mute switch,
no action button on this phone.
Honestly, you could probably use
an iPhone 14 case on the iPhone 15.
But around the front, new screen,
well, not new, again, but new
to this iPhone, new screen.
You now get the dynamic island
on the non-Pro iPhones this year,
which is very much doing
the whole punch cutout the Apple way.
So the notch is finally dead
until maybe a new iPhone SE
brings it back, it could happen.
But also, slowly, app developers
have been getting on board
in useful ways over the past year.
I already have a few favorites now,
my airline app's giving
me real-time flight info,
my weather apps, Uber, et cetera.
But while we're up here
talking about the screen on
this phone, it's also brighter,
It's up to 2,000 knits now,
which looks awesome outdoors.
But also, it's 2023,
and this is an $800 phone that
still has a 60 hertz display.
This is actually really fascinating to me.
It's so odd.
Like, on one hand,
for most people buying this
phone, it's totally fine.
It literally doesn't have,
it's a new baseline iPhone,
have you talked to someone who
buys a new baseline iPhone?
They literally don't care.
It doesn't matter,
it's not something they pay attention to,
you could ask them right now
how many frames per second their phone is
and they wouldn't have an
answer, just doesn't matter.
So just as long as it works
and it's all relatively
smooth like last year
and the year before and the year before,
it's totally a non-factor.
I have actually literally
handed 120 hertz phone to people
next to a 60 hertz phone,
and even side by side next to each other,
they can't see the difference.
Or if they do, it's just like,
oh, that's a subtle thing
that seems kind of neat
but they'd be totally
fine missing out on it.
So with the target
demographic of this phone,
it's totally fine.
But on the other hand, Apple,
the richest technology
company in the world,
does stuff all the time
that regular people will
literally never notice,
that are subtle improvements
or changes here and there,
all the time.
Like, when they switched
these baseline iPhones
from LCD to OLED displays,
do you think any of these
people actually noticed that?
Or what about going from
the A15 Bionic last year
to this A16 Bionic?
Do you think people are actually noticing
the differences here?
Or what about when they
just added 5G to the iPhone
and most people didn't care?
Like, making subtle improvements over time
is what modern smartphones
are all about these days.
And I would actually argue that
a higher refresh rate is more noticeable
to more people than some
of those other things.
Like, I think you could today
hand me, a professional,
an unlabeled iPhone with an
A15 Bionic and an A16 Bionic,
and it would take me quite some time
to find the real differences between them.
And so, that combined with the fact
that it's incredibly cheap
and easy and reasonable
to get to like at least a 90 hertz phone,
isn't the new Moto G is
like 90 hertz at $170
or something like that?
Now I'm sure that's a
horrible looking screen
compared to this iPhone,
it's 720P with the brightness
of a box of crayons.
But still they decided
to add that to that phone
because Motorola knew that
enough people would notice it
and feel that smoothness difference
and it's a higher level
of perceived performance.
So it's just wild to me,
knowing how easy it would
be for Apple to make this
even a 90 hertz display, but
they just refuse to do it
because they've attached the
word Pro to that feature.
It's promotion for the Pro phones.
And it just strikes me as a tool
just to sort of continue widening the gap
as much as they can
between the Pro iPhones
and the non-Pro iPhones,
and they're happy to do it,
even if it makes this iPhone 15
the most expensive phone in the world
with a 60 hertz display.
Anyway, speaking of widening that gap,
the Pro phones this year also
got a brand new A17 Pro chip
but this iPhone 15 gets
last year's A16 Bionic
from the 14 Pro.
Honestly, the renaming of the Pro chip
might be the most interesting part
because it implies that
it's definitely not going to trickle down
to the baseline phone next year.
But either way, this A16 bionic here
is more than good enough
in a phone of this price,
as far as performance and
handling everyday tasks
and gaming and flying
around iOS at 60 hertz.
And the one thing you definitely
can argue for 60 hertz
would be battery life,
because despite all the
issues floating around,
the battery life on these
phones has been pretty good.
So I don't know if you saw it,
but Apple has officially now addressed
the heat and battery
issues that some people,
including myself, have been
reporting with these iPhones.
So an iOS update is coming
and it seems like some
specific third party apps,
like Instagram, were also having issues
and those should be getting updates too.
But on average, the battery life on my 15
has been better than my
battery on the 15 Pro.
And the 15 Plus looks to have
the best battery life ever on any iPhone,
which is really promising.
So that combination of the
A16 Bionic, which is not new,
and 60 hertz screens, which are not new,
are giving you great battery life.
Also, USB-C is definitely not new
but here it is alongside all
the benefits that come with it,
from using the same cable
to charge everything,
to plugging into more accessories,
like monitors and keyboards
and all kinds of other stuff.
It is sad that the older chip does mean
there's no USB 3 controller
so there are no USB 3 data
speeds, it's still slow,
but honestly, unless you're using
the Pro iPhone's camera features,
there's almost nobody
here buying this phone
that's gonna actually need
fast data transfer anyway
so I guess you can give it a pass.
And they managed to do
it in the Apple way too.
They color matched the
inside of the USB-C port
with the color of the
phone, and they actually,
I don't know if you've seen this,
they print the model
number inside the port.
So Apple really loves hiding this
in the most discreet way possible.
You know, I should really
gives some appreciation
to some of the clever software
features on the iPhone 15
because you could actually
consider them new.
So they added stuff like
an ultra-wideband chip
so you can find your phone
more easily with an Apple Watch
or be found on Find My
Friends, that's new.
They also added these clever audio effects
and video effects at an OS level,
so they work inside of any app.
So you can be on a phone
call or a video call
or a Google Meet or Zoom or whatever,
and flip on the background
noise cancellation
and it works really shockingly well,
it's very, very good.
So I'm on a phone call with myself,
this is what it'll sound
like to be in a room
with the dishwasher
running, the HVAC going,
and the sink going right next to me,
right next to the microphone.
When I switch the mic from Standard mode
to Voice Isolation mode,
even though all the same
noises are still happening,
it does a much better
job of just picking out
specifically my voice,
really smart and it's genuinely new.
There's also some other not so new stuff,
like they just now added
downloadable offline areas
to Apple Maps and interactable widgets,
and they finally added an
80% battery charge limiter
in the settings.
So you can check out all this stuff,
I did a full video on the iOS 17 update
at the link below that like button,
if you wanna watch that, you
should definitely check it out
after you watch this video.
What I will say is one of
the most liked features
I talked about in that
video is Standby mode.
And on the Pro iPhone, when
you put it on a charger,
turn it sideways, it keeps the screen on
which it can do because
it goes to one Hertz,
it's an LTPO display, and it's
fine staying on like that.
But on the non-Pro iPhone,
which does not have LTPO,
it's basically locked at I
think either 30 or 60 hertz,
either way it doesn't drop to one Hertz.
So Apple just decides,
we'll turn off the screen
after a little bit,
which kind of feels like it
defeats the purpose of this feature,
so then you have to nudge the
table or or bump the stand
to wake it up like an Apple Watch charger.
Just a notable difference
between the Pro and non-Pro iPhones.
But last but not least,
these new cameras are actually
weird, but in a good way.
So iPhone 15 has been upgraded
to a new set of 12 megapixel ultra wide
and the new 48 megapixel main camera.
It's not the same sensor as the Pro,
it's actually slightly smaller,
but it has a larger max aperture
of F1.6 to make up for it.
And then, it's also
doing a combo of binning
and detailed transfer to give you
this new 24 megapixel photo
as a result by default.
Now, if you were paying attention before,
you'll remember that this new iPhone
has the exact same chip
as last year's Pro iPhone.
Same processing cores, same
image signal processor,
same neural engine, same
A16 Bionic, same everything.
So why is this new 24 megapixel default
only coming to the newest iPhone
15 and not last year's Pro?
Like, I still have last year's Pro phone
and I've updated it to the latest software
and it does not get this feature,
it's still shooting 12 megapixels.
So honestly now my base iPhone
15's non-zoomed in photos
are actually looking a little better,
a little more detailed than
last year's Pro phones.
And then, there's the new
auto-Portrait Mode detection
feature, which is pretty sweet.
Basically you don't have
to switch to Portrait Mode
to take a photo that captures
all of the depth information
that allows you to turn it into
a Portrait Mode photo later.
So as long as you're pointing
the camera at a human subject
or a cat or a dog as identified
by the neural engine,
or if you tap to focus, you
automatically get this little F
at the bottom corner of the screen,
which means it's capturing the data needed
for Portrait Mode, just in case.
And so, then, later, if you decide,
eh, I actually do want this
to be a Portrait Mode shot,
you go into your gallery
and just make it a Portrait Mode photo,
that you can even then go
in and edit and play with.
Some people have been describing it
as being able to change
the focus point later.
It's not exactly doing that,
you can't like save something
that was out of focus by bringing it back.
But basically, for the classic iPhone shot
where it kind of looks like
everything is in focus,
then, yeah, you can
play with Portrait Mode
and get really good results.
Last year's Pro iPhone has the same chip,
also has a 48 megapixel main camera
and has the same neural engine,
doesn't get this feature, for some reason.
Also kind of weird.
So look, with these reviews,
we always make a lot of judgements
about what we think the
typical iPhone buyer is,
what they actually care
about, what they'll notice,
what they will appreciate
about a new phone.
And with this one, I do
feel like they've stacked up
enough of these subtle improvements,
that even though it looks the same
and there's not really that
much that's actually new here,
they've at least stacked enough things
that it feels like an
appreciably better phone.
So my verdict is, if
you have an iPhone 14,
you don't have to upgrade,
of course, even a 13 maybe.
But if you have an older phone
and you're looking to
upgrade to a new iPhone,
every year, I always
get friends asking like,
"Oh, should I just get the older,
like last year's iPhone
to save some money?"
And no, I actually wouldn't,
I would say just get the iPhone 15.
There's enough new changes here,
it's a better phone in
every way and it's also USB.
Like, you don't buy a base iPhone
to get the bleeding edge of tech,
you buy it just 'cause
it works and it's fine
and it's gonna be familiar and
work for the next few years.
And just knowing that you're gonna have it
for the next few years,
I would not recommend
buying a Lightning iPhone
as we just moved everything forward
into the world of USB type C.
Just get the new one, just
grab the boring new iPhone
with nothing that's actually that new.
It's just gonna work.
That's it, thanks for watching,
catch you in the next one.
Peace.
(upbeat music)